Hi HN. I'm Prathap. Every agent framework makes it easy to give an agent tools. None of them answers the question a company asks before letting agents act: did it actually happen, and can we prove it?

"The API returned 200" is not proof. A 200 from a mail API doesn't mean the mail reached the right recipient. A 200 from a CRM doesn't mean the field holds the value you intended. Teams find the gap in an incident, an audit, or a customer complaint.

Attest is a small layer around the action.

Decide: a policy engine returns act / ask / refuse with a risk tier and reasons. Recipients are classified internal / known / external; deletes and payments ask; unknown writes ask.

Gate: risky actions wait for a human where the team already works. A Slack card, a web inbox, a webhook, email, Teams, or the framework's own pause (LangGraph interrupt, MCP pending + resume token).

Verify: after your tool runs, Attest reads back from the system of record with your credentials and compares intent with what is actually there. The result is a level, never a boolean: verified / verified-custom / acknowledged / attested-only / unverified. That last one means the API said yes and the record disagrees.

Attest: one hash-chained ledger row per action. Params and results are stored as hashes plus an allow-listed preview, never bodies.

It never executes anything. That is why it works with any stack on day one, and why it owes no connectors:

  @attest.action(system="gmail", verb="send", target="to")
  def send_email(to, subject, body): ...

Your code still runs the action. Attest decides, gates, reads back and records around it.

Here is what that buys you. Two identical CRM writes, both reported successful by the tool, both approved by a human:

  #2  someweirdcrm.create -> leads   ask  approved  unverified
  #1  someweirdcrm.create -> leads   ask  approved  verified

The second read back clean. The first did not, and the row says which field disagreed: want "qualified", got "new". A trace would have shown two green steps.

Also in the box: LangGraph, OpenAI Agents, Claude Agent SDK and CrewAI wrappers; a TypeScript SDK with Vercel AI SDK, LangChain.js and Mastra adapters; an HTTP gateway you point a base URL at; and a zero-code MCP proxy, where attest-mcp --upstream <your server> verifies create_issue by calling get_issue. An app it has never seen (POST api.someweirdcrm.io/v2/leads) is still recorded, decided, gated, and verified via GET /v2/leads/{id}.

Two design choices I would defend.

1. Levels, not booleans. A check that cannot run (network error, missing id, no recipe) degrades to acknowledged, with the error in the evidence. Only a contradiction is unverified. A read-back that finds the record but has nothing comparable is acknowledged with exists: true, never verified. The ledger never claims more than it checked.

2. Nothing leaves your process. Read-back uses the credential the agent already holds. The hosted option stores hashes and previews; vendor tokens never reach it.

Install: pip install attestlayer, or npm install attestlayer. On the MCP registry as io.github.dev-prathap/attest, on Smithery as attestlayer/attest. Docs: https://dev-prathap.github.io/ATTEST/

(One caveat while it is still true: the recipes are covered by tests against client-shaped fakes, and the ledger's tamper behaviour is tested directly, but the live-account suite has not yet been run against production Gmail, Slack or HubSpot. I would rather say that than imply otherwise.)

MIT. What I would like feedback on: the honesty rules above, which read-back recipes you would want next, and whether the MCP proxy fits how you actually run agents.
